=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Web::API - Web::API - A Simple base module to implement almost every RESTful API with just a few lines of configuration

=head1 VERSION

version 2.3.1

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<NOTE:> as of version 2.1 C<strict_ssl> is enabled by default for obvious security
reasons, this may break your current library implementation, sorry.

Implement the RESTful API of your choice in 10 minutes, roughly.

    package Net::CloudProvider;

    use Mouse;
    
    with 'Web::API';

    our $VERSION = "0.1";

    has 'commands' => (
        is      => 'rw',
        default => sub {
            {
                list_nodes => { method => 'GET' },
                node_info  => { method => 'GET', require_id => 1 },
                create_node => {
                    method             => 'POST',
                    default_attributes => {
                        allowed_hot_migrate            => 1,
                        required_virtual_machine_build => 1,
                        cpu_shares                     => 5,
                        required_ip_address_assignment => 1,
                        primary_network_id             => 1,
                        required_automatic_backup      => 0,
                        swap_disk_size                 => 1,
                    },
                    mandatory => [
                        'label',
                        'hostname',
                        'template_id',
                        'cpus',
                        'memory',
                        'primary_disk_size',
                        'required_virtual_machine_build',
                        'cpu_shares',
                        'primary_network_id',
                        'required_ip_address_assignment',
                        'required_automatic_backup',
                        'swap_disk_size',
                    ]
                },
                update_node => { method => 'PUT',    require_id => 1 },
                delete_node => { method => 'DELETE', require_id => 1 },
                start_node  => {
                    method       => 'POST',
                    require_id   => 1,
                    post_id_path => 'startup',
                },
                stop_node => {
                    method       => 'POST',
                    require_id   => 1,
                    post_id_path => 'shutdown',
                },
                suspend_node => {
                    method       => 'POST',
                    require_id   => 1,
                    post_id_path => 'suspend',
                },
            };
        },
    );

    sub commands {
        my ($self) = @_;
        return $self->commands;
    }

    sub BUILD {
        my ($self) = @_;

        $self->user_agent(__PACKAGE__ . ' ' . $VERSION);
        $self->base_url('https://ams01.cloudprovider.net/virtual_machines');
        $self->content_type('application/json');
        $self->extension('json');
        $self->wrapper('virtual_machine');
        $self->mapping({
                os        => 'template_id',
                debian    => 1,
                id        => 'label',
                disk_size => 'primary_disk_size',
        });

        return $self;
    }

    1;

later use as:

    use Net::CloudProvider;
    
    my $nc = Net::CloudProvider->new(user => 'foobar', api_key => 'secret');
    my $response = $nc->create_node({
        id                             => 'funnybox',
        hostname                       => 'node.funnybox.com',
        os                             => 'debian',
        cpus                           => 2,
        memory                         => 256,
        disk_size                      => 5,
        allowed_hot_migrate            => 1,
        required_virtual_machine_build => 1,
        cpu_shares                     => 5,
        required_ip_address_assignment => 1,
    });

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 commands

most important configuration part of the module which has to be provided by the
module you are writing.

the following keys are valid/possible:

    method
    path
    mandatory
    default_attributes
    headers
    extension
    content_type
    incoming_content_type
    outgoing_content_type
    wrapper
    require_id (deprecated, use path)
    pre_id_path (deprecated, use path)
    post_id_path (deprecated, use path)

the request path for commands is being build as:

    $base_url/$path.$extension

an example for C<path>:

    path => 'users/:user_id/labels'

this will add C<user_id> to the list of mandatory keys for this command
automatically.

=head2 base_url (required)

get/set base URL to API, can include paths

=head2 api_key (required in most cases)

get/set API key (also used as basic auth password)

=head2 user (optional)

get/set API username/account name

=head2 api_key_field (optional)

get/set name of the hash key that has to hold the C<api_key>
e.g. in POST content payloads

=head2 api_version (optional)

get/set API version to be used

default: 1

=head2 mapping (optional)

supply mapping table, hashref of format { "key" => "value", ... }

=head2 wrapper (optional)

get/set name of the key that is used to wrap all options of a command in.
unfortunately some APIs increase the depth of a hash by wrapping everything into
a single key (who knows why...), which means this:

    $wa->command(%options);

turns C<%options> into:

    { wrapper => \%options }

before encoding and sending it off.

=head2 header (optional)

get/set custom headers sent with every request

=head2 auth_type

get/set authentication type. currently supported are only 'basic', 'header',
'hash_key', 'get_params', 'oauth_header', 'oauth_params' or 'none'

default: none

=head2 auth_header (optional)

get/set the name of the header used for Authorization credentials

default: Authorization

=head2 default_method (optional)

get/set default HTTP method

default: GET

=head2 extension (optional)

get/set file extension, e.g. '.json'

=head2 user_agent (optional)

get/set User Agent String

default: "Web::API $VERSION"

=head2 timeout (optional)

get/set L<LWP::UserAgent> timeout

=head2 strict_ssl (optional)

enable/disable strict SSL certificate hostname checking as a convenience
alternatively you can supply your own LWP::Useragent compatible agent for
the C<agent> attribute.

default: true

=head2 agent (optional)

get/set L<LWP::UserAgent> object

=head2 retry_http_codes (optional)

get/set array of HTTP response codes that trigger a retry of the request

=head2 retry_errors (optional)

define an array reference of regexes that should trigger a retry of the request
if matched against an error found via one of the C<error_keys>

=head2 retry_times (optional)

get/set amount of times a request will be retried at most

default: 3

=head2 retry_delay (optional)

get/set delay to wait between retries. accepts float for millisecond support.

default: 1.0

=head2 content_type (optional)

global content type, which is used for in and out going request/response
headers and to encode and decode the payload if no other more specific content
types are set, e.g. C<incoming_content_type>, C<outgoing_content_type> or
content types set individually per command attribute.

default: 'text/plain'

=head2 incoming_content_type (optional)

default: undef

=head2 outgoing_content_type (optional)

default: undef

=head2 debug (optional)

enable/disabled debug logging

default: false

=head2 cookies (optional)

this is used to store and retrieve cookies before and after requests were made
to keep authenticated sessions alive for the time this object exists in memory
you can add your own cookies to be send with every request. See
L<HTTP::Cookies> for more information.

default: HTTP::Cookies->new()

=head2 consumer_secret (required for all oauth_* auth_types)

default: undef

=head2 access_token (required for all oauth_* auth_types)

default: undef

=head2 access_secret (required for all oauth_* auth_types)

default: undef

=head2 signature_method (required for all oauth_* auth_types)

default: undef

=head2 encoder (custom options encoding subroutine)

Receives C<\%options> and C<content-type> as the only 2 arguments and has to
return a single scalar.

default: undef

=head2 decoder (custom response content decoding subroutine)

Receives C<content> and C<content-type> as the only 2 scalar arguments and has
to return a single hash reference.

default: undef

=head2 oauth_post_body (required for all oauth_* auth_types)

enable/disable adding of command options as extra parameters to the OAuth
request generation and therefor be included in the OAuth signature calculation.

default: true

=head2 error_keys

get/set list of array keys that will be search for in the decoded response data
structure. the same format as for mandatory keys is supported:

    some.deeply.nested.error.message

will search for an error message at

    $decoded_response->{some}->{deeply}->{nested}->{error}->{messsage}

and if the key exists and its value is defined it will be provided as
C<$response->{error}> and matched against all regexes from the `retry_errors`
array ref if provided to trigger a retry on particular errors.

=head1 INTERNAL SUBROUTINES/METHODS

=head2 nonce

generates new OAuth nonce for every request

=head2 log

=head2 decode

=head2 encode

=head2 talk

=head2 map_options

=head2 key_exists

=head2 wrap

=head2 request

retry request with delay if C<retry_http_codes> is set, otherwise just try once.

=head2 needs_retry

returns true if the HTTP code or error found match either C<retry_http_codes>
or C<retry_errors> respectively.
returns false otherwise.

if C<retry_errors> are defined it will try to decode the response content and
store the decoded structure internally so we don't have to decode again at the
end.

needs the last response object and the 'Accept' content type header from the
request for decoding.

=head2 find_error

go through C<error_keys> and find a potential error message in the decoded/parsed
response and return it.

=head2 format_response

=head2 build_uri

=head2 build_content_type

configure in/out content types

order of precedence:
1. per command C<incoming_content_type> / C<outgoing_content_type>
2. per command general C<content_type>
3. content type based on file path extension (only for incoming)
4. global C<incoming_content_type> / C<outgoing_content_type>
5. global general C<content_type>

=head2 DESTROY

catch DESTROY call and tear down / clean up if necessary
at this point there is nothing to do though. This prevents
AUTOLOAD from logging an unknown command error message

=head2 AUTOLOAD magic

install a method for each new command and call it in an C<eval {}> to catch
exceptions and set an error in a unified way.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on GitHub's issue tracker L<https://github.com/nupfel/Web-API/issues>.
Pull requests welcome.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the L<perldoc(1)> command.

    perldoc Web::API

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * GitHub repository

L<https://github.com/nupfel/Web-API>

=item * MetaCPAN

L<https://metacpan.org/module/Web::API>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Web::API>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Web::API>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTTP::Cookies>, L<LWP::UserAgent>, L<Net::OAuth>

=head1 AUTHOR

Tobias Kirschstein <lev@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2013 by Tobias Kirschstein.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The (three-clause) BSD License

=cut
